# Daimyo: Samurai payment gateway integration library

v0.0.3

Copyright (c)2011, by Branko Vukelic <branko@herdhound.com>.

Some rights reserved.

Licensed under MIT license (see
[LICENSE](https://github.com/HerdHound/Daimyo/blob/master/LICENSE))

## Overview

Daimyo (pronounced as _dah-e-myoh_) is a client library for the 
[Samurai payment gateway](http://feefighters.ca/samurai) from
[Fee Fighters](http://feefighters.com/). By the time 1.0 release is made,
Daimyo will support all of Samurai's API, but the current immediate goal is to
support the sale transactions and provide robust error reporting facilities.

## Status

### 0.0.4 (pre-release)

 + `allowedCurrencies` setting which limits the currencies that can be used
 + `transaciton.Transaction.process()` will check allowed currencies and block
   transactions that use disallowed currency.
 + `transaction.Transaction.process()` no longer throws exceptions. All errors
   are passed to the callback instead.
 + Ashigaru now supports the `custom` field.
 + `checkamd` make target now generates file with version number.

### 0.0.3 (latest)

_This version is still not production ready._

 + Tamper-proofed all properties set with accessors in `daimyo.Card` and 
   `transaction.Transaction` objects.
 + Made `data` and `path` properties on `transaction.Transaction` objects 
   set-once properties similar to configuration locking.
 + Custom fields are implemented in both `daimyo.Card` and
   `transaction.Transaction` objects. They can store any JSON-serializable
   object, and that will be stored in Samurai gateway, and restored later with
   methods like ``card.load()`` or when transaction is completed.
 + All transaction requests embed a SHA1 hexdigest of 100-character random
   string, which is checked when the response is received. All transactions
   will fail the integrity check if this hash doesn't match.
 + If methods like ``daimyo.Card.load()`` are missing a token, the error will
   now _not_ be thrown, but passed to the callback instead, like all other
   methods.

### 0.0.2

 + `daimyo` no longer has `settings` property. You should use
   `daimyo.option()` to access options instead.
 + After calling `daimyo.configure()` successfully for the first time,
   configuration will now be permanently locked until you restart the app.
   This is a _feature_ not a bug. It prevents malicious code from tricking your
   app into resetting some of the critical Daimyo options.
 + Returns a proper 'Declined' error message when the card is declined.

### 0.0.1

The first release is a public preview release and it's not meant to be
production-ready. There are still quite a few things to implement, and error
handling is not very robust. Note that API might change as well. For starters,
you should not rely on any method that has the @private tag in the inline
comments (that do not appear in API documentation, that is), but the public
methods may change as well, as well as method signatures.

Although there _are_ unit tests, and Daimyo's development is test-driven, the
tests do not currently provide complete coverage, and it is expected that some
functionality may break in production. Target for first production-ready Daimyo
is v0.1.

## Installation

Easiest way to install Daimyo is by using npm:

    npm install daimyo

That will install the latest release that we have made. Not that releases prior
to 0.1 are not considered production-ready. See the _Status_ section of this 
file to find out more about the current progress.

Since Daimyo is currently still very beta, if you wish to get a newer version
with more features (please don't do this in production, though), you can add it
as a dependency to your packages.json like this:

    dependencies: {
       ....
      ,"daimyo": "https://github.com/HerdHound/Daimyo/tarball/master"
       ....
    }

Using the above method, it is also possible to address individual commits. Go
to GitHub, switch to a commit you want to depend on, click the download link,
and right-click the tarball button, copy URL, and paste it into your dependency
list like above.

Finally, you can clone the Daimyo repository using git and install from the
cloned repository:
    
    git clone https://github.com/HerdHound/Daimyo.git
    cd /your/project/dir
    npm install /path/to/daimyo/clone

## Basic usage

    var daimyo = require('daimyo');

    // Configure Daimyo
    daimyo.configure({
      merchantKey: 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx',
      processorId: 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx',
      apiPassword: 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx',
      currency: 'USD', // default
      debug: false, // default, should stay off in production at all costs
      enabled: true, // default
      sandbox: false // default
    });

    // Using transparent redirect with Express
    app.get('/redirect_target', function(req, res, next) {
        var token = req.param('payment_method_token');
        var card = daimyo.Card({token: token});

        // Create a new transaction
        var transactionData = {
            amount: 100,
            billingReference: 'my billing ref #',
            customerReference: "user's customer ref #',
            type: 'purchase'
        }

        // Process the transaction using the card object
        transaction.process(card, function(err) {

           if (err) {
             // Handle error and return error page
             res.render('sorry', {});
             return;
           }

           if (!transaction.messages.info || 
               transaction.messages.info[0] === 'success') {
             // The transaction was not successful
             res.render('sorry, {messages: transaction.messages});
             return;
           }

           // Ah, finally! All ur moneys are belong to us!
           res.render('kthxbye', {});

           // Don't forget to Email receipt!
           emailReceipt({
             issuer: card.issuer,
             cardNo: '****-****-****-' + card.last4, 
             date: transaction.receipt.createdAt,
             amount: transaction.receipt.amount
           });
        });
    });

## Using the ``check`` as AMD module in browsers

The `lib/check.js`` module contains generic functions for performing various
checks on credit cards. It performs Luhn Mod-10 check to ensure that the card
number is valid (although the card itself may not be valid), get the name of
the issuer, or make sure that the CSC (also called CVV, CVC, or CCV) has the
right number of digits, etc. It is always a good idea to perform this check
browser-side to ensure that obviously invalid cards do not make it to the
system, or that any typing errors are caught early on.

This module can be used in browsers with minimal modifications. For
convenience, the ``checkamd`` target is provided in the makefile, which builds
an AMD module compatible with loaders like [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/).

To build the AMD version of check, simply type:

    make checkamd

This will result in creation of a new file called ``check.js`` in the project
directory. The file is not minified. If you want to minify it, you can use
tools such as [UglifyJS](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS).

To use it, simply require it from your module as usual:

    // mymodule.js
    define(['jquery', 'check'], function($, check) {
        var cardNumber = $('input[name=card]).val();
        var csc = $('input[name=csc]').val();
        
        var isVaild = check.mod10check(cardNumber) ? true : false;
        var isValid = isValid && check.cscCheck(cardNumber, csc) ? true : false
        
        var issuer = check.getIssuer(cardNumber);
        alert('Your card was issued by ' + issuer);
    });

You can find more details on this module in the 
[API documentation](http://herdhound.github.com/Daimyo/).

## API documentation

The dox-generated API documentation can be found at
[herdhound.github.com/Daimyo/](http://herdhound.github.com/Daimyo/). You can
also generate the documentation for offline use using the provided makefile.
See _Offline documentaiton_ section for instructions.

## Offline documentation

You can generate offline documentation for Daimyo using the
[dox](https://github.com/visionmedia/dox/) utility from Visionmedia. Install
dox by typing:

    sudo npm install dox -g

Now you can simpy type ``make docs`` in the project directory. The
documentation will be generated in a newly created ``docs`` directory. To
remove the documentation, just type ``make clean``.

## Running unit tests

To run unit tests you need [Expresso](https://github.com/visionmedia/expresso),
and [should.js](https://github.com/visionmedia/should.js). You also need to
create a file called `test/config.js`, and add your keys there:

    exports.merchantKey = 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx';
    exports.apiPassword = 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx';
    exports.processorId = 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx';

The tests are run simply by simply typing `make` in the project directory.
Alternatively, you can type:

    expresso /test/*.tests.js

Do not run tests with your live processor. Make sure you are running in a
sandbox.

## Reporting bugs

You may use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/HerdHound/Daimyo/issues) to
report Daimyo bugs you find. Alternatively, you may contact the author directly
at [branko@herdhound.com](mailto:branko@herdhound.com). Of course, feature
requests are also welcome, but currently, the basic functionality is top
priority.
